docs/Network-Play.md, before:

# Network Play

## Table of Contents
- [Status & Support](#status--support)
- [Requirements](#requirements)
- [Quick Start](#quick-start)
- [Reconnect Support](#reconnect-support)
- [Network Configuration](#network-configuration)
  - [Local Network Setup](#local-network-setup)
  - [Remote Network Setup](#remote-network-setup)
- [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting)
  
---

## Status & Support

> [!CAUTION]
> **Network play is a work-in-progress.** You will encounter bugs. When they appear, they will likely be mid-game and require restarting both the client and host. Please report bugs and issues to help improve stability.

**Discord:** A dedicated network play channel is available at https://discord.gg/nsAhGwD

**FAQ:** See the Networking FAQ in the sidebar.

---

## Requirements

| Requirement | Details |
|---|---|
| **Players** | Up to **8 players** per game (1 host + up to 7 remote players) |
| **Roles** | **Host** runs Forge as the server; **Client** connects to it |
| **Game Types** | **Constructed** formats only (no Draft or Sealed). Supported variants: Commander, Oathbreaker, Tiny Leaders, Brawl, Archenemy, Planechase, Vanguard. |
| **Network** | Local (same Wi-Fi, Wi-Fi Direct, Ethernet) or Remote (IPv4 internet) |
| **Port** | Default: **36743** (TCP). Can be changed in Forge's network preferences. |
| **Firewall** | Host must allow Forge or the server port through its firewall. Do **not** disable the firewall entirely. |
| **Port Forward** | Required for remote play — forward the server port on the host's router, or use UPnP (see below) |
| **IP Version** | IPv4 required. IPv6 with full Dual Stack works; Dual Stack Lite does **not**. |

---

## Quick Start

1. **Configure network** — Host must configure network settings to enable external connections (see [Network Configuration](#network-configuration) below).
2. **Verify versions** — Confirm all devices are running the same Forge version (see [Version Compatibility](#version-compatibility) below).
3. **Launch Forge** on all devices.
     - Mobile: Choose "Classic Mode", then "Play Online"
     - Desktop: "Online Multiplayer" > "Lobby" > "Connect to Server"
4. **Host** leaves the server address field **empty** and clicks OK.
     - On first host, Forge will ask whether to **automatically open the port via UPnP** (see [UPnP](#upnp-automatic-port-forwarding) below). If your router supports UPnP, choosing "Just Once" or "Always" can skip manual port forwarding entirely.
5. **Host** determines address to share with clients:
     - **Local play:** Use the **Copy Server URL** button in the lobby — this copies the address in the correct format. Forge displays the host's IP (typically `192.168.x.x`). Verify against the device's network settings. Ignore any suggestion to use `localhost`.
     - **Remote play:** Verify the host's external IP at [canyouseeme.org](http://canyouseeme.org).
 7. **Client** enters the host's address in the connection dialog and clicks OK.
     - The address format is **`IP:port`** — for example: `192.168.1.50:36743` (local) or `203.0.113.45:36743` (remote).
     - If the port is omitted, Forge defaults to 36743.
8. **Configure the match:**
     - Host selects match type, teams, and game settings.
     - All players select decks, sleeves, and avatars.
     - Each player toggles their **Ready** switch.
9. **Host starts the match** once all players are ready.

---

## Reconnect Support

> [!IMPORTANT]
> **The host's device is the server.** If the host disconnects or closes Forge, the game ends immediately for all players — there is no host migration or disconnect support for server crashes. Choose the most stable device/connection as the host.

If a client player disconnects during an active game, the server enters **reconnection mode** instead of immediately ending the match.

### What Happens on Disconnect

- The game **pauses** for the disconnected player — all other players see a notification.
- A **5-minute countdown** begins, with status messages broadcast every 30 seconds.
- The disconnected player can rejoin by reconnecting to the same server with the **same username**.
- On successful reconnect, the full game state is re-sent to the player and the game resumes normally.

### If the Player Does Not Reconnect

When the 5-minute timeout expires, the disconnected player is **replaced by an AI** and the game continues.

### Host Commands

The host can type these commands in the lobby chat during the reconnection window. These commands are **host-only** — clients cannot use them.

| Command | Effect |
|---|---|
| `/skipreconnect [player]` | Immediately replace the disconnected player with AI (skip the countdown). Player name can be omitted if only one player is disconnected. |
| `/skiptimeout [player]` | Cancel the countdown timer and wait **indefinitely** for the player to reconnect. |

---

## Network Configuration

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Complete the **Local Network Setup** first, even if your goal is remote play. Remote setup builds on a working local configuration.

### Local Network Setup

#### 1. Configure the Host Firewall

| Platform | Action |
|---|---|
| **Android** | No configuration needed. |
| **Windows** | Allow Forge (or port 36743) through Windows Defender Firewall. |
| **macOS** | Allow incoming connections for Forge in System Settings > Firewall. |
| **Linux** | Allow port 36743 through your firewall (e.g., `ufw allow 36743/tcp`). |

#### 2. Validate the Port is Open

Test from a **different device** on the same network to confirm the host is accepting connections on port 36743.

- **Android:** Use [PortDroid](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.stealthcopter.portdroid) — scan the host's internal IP for port 36743.
- **Windows (PowerShell):** Open PowerShell and run:
  ```powershell
  Test-NetConnection -ComputerName <HOST_IP> -Port 36743
  ```
  Success: `TcpTestSucceeded : True`. Failure: `TcpTestSucceeded : False`.
- **macOS / Linux:** Use netcat:
  ```bash
  nc -vz <HOST_IP> 36743
  ```
  Success: "Connection to ... succeeded". Failure: "Connection refused" or timeout.

Once validated, provide the host's internal IP and port to the client (e.g., `192.168.1.50:36743`).

### Remote Network Setup

#### UPnP (Automatic Port Forwarding)

Forge has built-in **UPnP** support that can automatically configure your router's port forwarding. When you host a server, Forge will prompt:

> "Attempt to open port 36743 automatically?"

| Option | Behavior |
|---|---|
| **Just Once** | Attempt UPnP for this session only. You will be prompted again next time. |
| **Always** | Always attempt UPnP when hosting. Saved as a preference. |
| **Not Now** | Skip UPnP this time. You will be prompted again next time. |
| **Never** | Never attempt UPnP. Saved as a preference. You will need to configure port forwarding manually. |

**If UPnP succeeds**, no manual router configuration is needed — skip to [Validate External Access](#2-validate-external-access) below.

**If UPnP fails**, Forge will notify you that the port could not be opened automatically. You will need to configure port forwarding manually using the steps below. Common reasons for failure: UPnP is disabled on the router, the router doesn't support UPnP, or a firewall is blocking UPnP discovery.

#### 1. Manual Port Forwarding on the Router

Access your router's admin interface (typically `http://192.168.x.1/`, where `x` matches your local IP subnet). Navigate to port forwarding settings (may be under "Advanced") and create a rule:

| Field | Value |
|---|---|
| External/Remote IP | Blank or "Any" |
| External Port | 36743 |
| Internal IP | Host machine's local IP |
| Internal Port | 36743 |

Router-specific guides: [portforward.com/router.htm](https://portforward.com/router.htm) (use the guides only — their software is not recommended).

#### 2. Validate External Access

- Go to [canyouseeme.org](http://canyouseeme.org) **from the host machine** while Forge is hosting.
- Enter port **36743** and click "Check Port".
- A **Success** message confirms the configuration is correct.

Share the external IP shown on that page with the client. Remember the client needs to enter it as **`IP:36743`** (e.g., `203.0.113.45:36743`).

### Alternative: VPN / Software-Defined Networks

If you cannot configure port forwarding (public hotspot, cellular, restricted network), see the [Networking Extras](Networking-Extras) page for VPN and SDN setup options. Once connected through a VPN or SDN, follow the **Local Network Setup** above.

---

## Troubleshooting

### Version Compatibility
While network play between different versions of Forge can be possible, mismatched versions may cause desync or crashes mid-game. Forge warns when a client's version differs from the host's but **does not block the connection**. Always use the same version on all devices to avoid network compatibility issues.

### Lag / High Bandwidth
Network play currently lacks traffic optimization. A single game can transfer hundreds of megabytes. Slow connections will experience significant lag.

Commit message:

Revise network play documentation and add tips
Updated the Discord information and added tips for network play.

docs/Network-Play.md, after:

# Network Play

## Table of Contents
- [Status & Support](#status--support)
- [Requirements](#requirements)
- [Quick Start](#quick-start)
- [Reconnect Support](#reconnect-support)
- [Network Configuration](#network-configuration)
  - [Local Network Setup](#local-network-setup)
  - [Remote Network Setup](#remote-network-setup)
- [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting)
  
---

## Status & Support

> [!CAUTION]
> **Network play is a work-in-progress.** You will encounter bugs. When they appear, they will likely be mid-game and require restarting both the client and host. Please report bugs and issues to help improve stability.

> [!TIP]
> - The **[Forge Discord](https://discord.gg/nsAhGwD)** has a dedicated network play channel. Folks there will be happy to help you with any issues!
> - Also see the **[Network FAQs](Network-FAQ)** page for further information.

---

## Requirements

| Requirement | Details |
|---|---|
| **Players** | Up to **8 players** per game (1 host + up to 7 remote players) |
| **Roles** | **Host** runs Forge as the server; **Client** connects to it |
| **Game Types** | **Constructed** formats only (no Draft or Sealed). Supported variants: Commander, Oathbreaker, Tiny Leaders, Brawl, Archenemy, Planechase, Vanguard. |
| **Network** | Local (same Wi-Fi, Wi-Fi Direct, Ethernet) or Remote (IPv4 internet) |
| **Port** | Default: **36743** (TCP). Can be changed in Forge's network preferences. |
| **Firewall** | Host must allow Forge or the server port through its firewall. Do **not** disable the firewall entirely. |
| **Port Forward** | Required for remote play — forward the server port on the host's router, or use UPnP (see below) |
| **IP Version** | IPv4 required. IPv6 with full Dual Stack works; Dual Stack Lite does **not**. |

---

## Quick Start

1. **Configure network** — Host must configure network settings to enable external connections (see [Network Configuration](#network-configuration) below).
2. **Verify versions** — Confirm all devices are running the same Forge version (see [Version Compatibility](#version-compatibility) below).
3. **Launch Forge** on all devices.
     - Mobile: Choose "Classic Mode", then "Play Online"
     - Desktop: "Online Multiplayer" > "Lobby" > "Connect to Server"
4. **Host** leaves the server address field **empty** and clicks OK.
     - On first host, Forge will ask whether to **automatically open the port via UPnP** (see [UPnP](#upnp-automatic-port-forwarding) below). If your router supports UPnP, choosing "Just Once" or "Always" can skip manual port forwarding entirely.
5. **Host** determines address to share with clients:
     - **Local play:** Use the **Copy Server URL** button in the lobby — this copies the address in the correct format. Forge displays the host's IP (typically `192.168.x.x`). Verify against the device's network settings. Ignore any suggestion to use `localhost`.
     - **Remote play:** Verify the host's external IP at [canyouseeme.org](http://canyouseeme.org).
 7. **Client** enters the host's address in the connection dialog and clicks OK.
     - The address format is **`IP:port`** — for example: `192.168.1.50:36743` (local) or `203.0.113.45:36743` (remote).
     - If the port is omitted, Forge defaults to 36743.
8. **Configure the match:**
     - Host selects match type, teams, and game settings.
     - All players select decks, sleeves, and avatars.
     - Each player toggles their **Ready** switch.
9. **Host starts the match** once all players are ready.

---

## Reconnect Support

> [!IMPORTANT]
> **The host's device is the server.** If the host disconnects or closes Forge, the game ends immediately for all players — there is no host migration or disconnect support for server crashes. Choose the most stable device/connection as the host.

If a client player disconnects during an active game, the server enters **reconnection mode** instead of immediately ending the match.

### What Happens on Disconnect

- The game **pauses** for the disconnected player — all other players see a notification.
- A **5-minute countdown** begins, with status messages broadcast every 30 seconds.
- The disconnected player can rejoin by reconnecting to the same server with the **same username**.
- On successful reconnect, the full game state is re-sent to the player and the game resumes normally.

### If the Player Does Not Reconnect

When the 5-minute timeout expires, the disconnected player is **replaced by an AI** and the game continues.

### Host Commands

The host can type these commands in the lobby chat during the reconnection window. These commands are **host-only** — clients cannot use them.

| Command | Effect |
|---|---|
| `/skipreconnect [player]` | Immediately replace the disconnected player with AI (skip the countdown). Player name can be omitted if only one player is disconnected. |
| `/skiptimeout [player]` | Cancel the countdown timer and wait **indefinitely** for the player to reconnect. |

---

## Network Configuration

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Complete the **Local Network Setup** first, even if your goal is remote play. Remote setup builds on a working local configuration.

### Local Network Setup

#### 1. Configure the Host Firewall

| Platform | Action |
|---|---|
| **Android** | No configuration needed. |
| **Windows** | Allow Forge (or port 36743) through Windows Defender Firewall. |
| **macOS** | Allow incoming connections for Forge in System Settings > Firewall. |
| **Linux** | Allow port 36743 through your firewall (e.g., `ufw allow 36743/tcp`). |

#### 2. Validate the Port is Open

Test from a **different device** on the same network to confirm the host is accepting connections on port 36743.

- **Android:** Use [PortDroid](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.stealthcopter.portdroid) — scan the host's internal IP for port 36743.
- **Windows (PowerShell):** Open PowerShell and run:
  ```powershell
  Test-NetConnection -ComputerName <HOST_IP> -Port 36743
  ```
  Success: `TcpTestSucceeded : True`. Failure: `TcpTestSucceeded : False`.
- **macOS / Linux:** Use netcat:
  ```bash
  nc -vz <HOST_IP> 36743
  ```
  Success: "Connection to ... succeeded". Failure: "Connection refused" or timeout.

Once validated, provide the host's internal IP and port to the client (e.g., `192.168.1.50:36743`).

### Remote Network Setup

#### UPnP (Automatic Port Forwarding)

Forge has built-in **UPnP** support that can automatically configure your router's port forwarding. When you host a server, Forge will prompt:

> "Attempt to open port 36743 automatically?"

| Option | Behavior |
|---|---|
| **Just Once** | Attempt UPnP for this session only. You will be prompted again next time. |
| **Always** | Always attempt UPnP when hosting. Saved as a preference. |
| **Not Now** | Skip UPnP this time. You will be prompted again next time. |
| **Never** | Never attempt UPnP. Saved as a preference. You will need to configure port forwarding manually. |

**If UPnP succeeds**, no manual router configuration is needed — skip to [Validate External Access](#2-validate-external-access) below.

**If UPnP fails**, Forge will notify you that the port could not be opened automatically. You will need to configure port forwarding manually using the steps below. Common reasons for failure: UPnP is disabled on the router, the router doesn't support UPnP, or a firewall is blocking UPnP discovery.

#### 1. Manual Port Forwarding on the Router

Access your router's admin interface (typically `http://192.168.x.1/`, where `x` matches your local IP subnet). Navigate to port forwarding settings (may be under "Advanced") and create a rule:

| Field | Value |
|---|---|
| External/Remote IP | Blank or "Any" |
| External Port | 36743 |
| Internal IP | Host machine's local IP |
| Internal Port | 36743 |

Router-specific guides: [portforward.com/router.htm](https://portforward.com/router.htm) (use the guides only — their software is not recommended).

#### 2. Validate External Access

- Go to [canyouseeme.org](http://canyouseeme.org) **from the host machine** while Forge is hosting.
- Enter port **36743** and click "Check Port".
- A **Success** message confirms the configuration is correct.

Share the external IP shown on that page with the client. Remember the client needs to enter it as **`IP:36743`** (e.g., `203.0.113.45:36743`).

### Alternative: VPN / Software-Defined Networks

If you cannot configure port forwarding (public hotspot, cellular, restricted network), see the **[Networking Extras](Networking-Extras)** page for VPN and SDN setup options. Once connected through a VPN or SDN, follow the **Local Network Setup** above.

---

## Troubleshooting

### Version Compatibility
While network play between different versions of Forge can be possible, mismatched versions may cause desync or crashes mid-game. Forge warns when a client's version differs from the host's but **does not block the connection**. Always use the same version on all devices to avoid network compatibility issues.

### Lag / High Bandwidth
Network play currently lacks traffic optimization. A single game can transfer hundreds of megabytes. Slow connections will experience significant lag.
